[Music]
the moon isn't a sphere it's shaped like
an egg
there's a gigantic red spinning storm on
Jupiter the sun's surface is colder than
its atmosphere let's figure out what
other surprises space has for us space
isn't supposed to be black there are
stars everywhere shouldn't they light up
everything around you don't see stars
where ever you look because some of them
haven't existed long enough for their
light to reach Earth at first sight the
moon seems to be as large as the Sun but
it's just an illusion the star is 400
times bigger than the earth satellite
it's also 400 times farther from us than
the moon that's why these space bodies
look as if they're of the same size
Saturn has a moon called pan and it
looks like a ravioli it's only 20 miles
across and works as a shepherd to the
matter that makes up Saturn's rings the
moon clears an empty space between the
Rings known as the N key gap and keeps
it free from ring particles all of the
planets of the solar system would fit
between Earth and the moon with some
space to spare there are huge
temperature fluctuations on the moon
close to the satellites equator the
temperature rises from minus 279 degrees
at night to 260 degrees in the afternoon
the highest mountain in the solar system
is Olympus Mons on Mars it's three times
as high as Mount Everest the Earth's
highest mountain above sea level if you
were standing on top of Olympus Mons
you wouldn't understand you were
standing on a mountain its slopes would
be hidden by the planet's curvature the
moon's gravity is only 17 percent of the
Earth's if your weight was 100 pounds on
our home planet it only weighs 17 pounds
on the moon you would be able to walk a
distance six times longer and carry a
weight six times heavier there or just
hire somebody from NASA to carry it for
you though it's easier to walk on the
moon it's more dangerous to an
astronaut's foot in a heavy spacesuit
sinks into the moon's
up to six inches deep long distance
jumps are uncontrolled and dangerous
because the moon's surface is full of
deep craters one of the things
Jupiter's famous for is the Great Red
Spot a giant spinning storm this
phenomenon used to be so gigantic that
it could fit two or even three Earth's
but the spot is shrinking right now it
wouldn't fit more than one earth if two
pieces of the same kind of metal touch
in space they bond and get permanently
stuck together it doesn't happen on
earth thanks to water and air that keep
pieces separate the moon is not an ideal
sphere it's shaped more like an egg
because of the Earth's gravity the base
of the egg shape points toward our
planet
normal visible matter for example
planets and stars make up just 5% of the
universe the rest consists of invisible
dark energy that 68% and dark matter
about 27% it leaves us with 95% of space
we know nothing about the mysterious
Kuiper belt lies behind the orbit of
Neptune it's filled with massive icy
objects the most curious thing about
this phenomenon is its movement pattern
the only explanation astronomers have
Neptune is hiding a ginormous planet
this hypothetical planet has already got
the name planet 9 all we have to do is
wait until its existence is confirmed or
not the largest canyon in the solar
system is Valles Marineris on Mars
almost sounds like a pasta dish doesn't
it it's more than 10 times larger than
the Earth's Grand Canyon some
astronomers believe that the canyon
appeared billions of years ago when the
planet was cooling down the most
productive scientific instrument ever
created is the Hubble Space Telescope
it's been in operation for almost 30
years it's also helped astronomers
publish more than 15,000 scientific
papers the planet Uranus rotates on its
side
scientists have no idea why the planet
has such an unusual position the reason
might be an ancient mega powerful
collision but it's just a theory
by the way Uranus is the only planet
laying on its side in 2016 a telescope
picked up radio waves from a dwarf
galaxy 3 billion light-years away from
us when the signals started their
journey the very first forms of life
were just appearing on earth
cryovolcanoes on Pluto sometimes
informally called ice volcanoes spit out
ice or rather a melted mixture of water
ice and frozen ammonia nitrogen and
methane not a great recipe for a slushy
when astronauts are in space they often
see random flashes of light those are
not hallucinations cosmic rays creates
such an effect while hitting the optic
nerve you don't see similar flashes here
on earth because the magnetosphere
doesn't let cosmic rays reach your eyes
the International Space Station orbits
our planet at a very high speed it only
takes 92 minutes to make a full orbit
that's why astronauts see a sunrise and
a sunset every 45 minutes which totals
15 to 16 sunsets and sunrises a day
decades ago astronomers believe mercury
didn't rotate around its axis they
suppose the same side of the planet
always faced the Sun it wasn't until
1965 when they discovered that the
planet does actually rotate but at a
snail's pace one rotation takes 57 Earth
days
scientists believe that diamonds as big
as jewels rained down on Saturn and
Jupiter lightning storms turned methane
abundant in the planets atmospheres into
soot
it hardens into chunks of graphite and
then diamonds that fall from the sky our
Sun is insanely massive why proof
ninety-nine point eight six percent of
all the mass in the solar system is the
mass of the Sun in particular the
hydrogen and helium it's made of the
remaining 0.1
4% is mostly the mass of the solar
system's eight planets the sun's
atmosphere is hotter than the surface of
the star the surface temperature reaches
10,000 degrees Fahrenheit
but the upper atmosphere heats up to
millions of degrees venus is a champ
when it comes to volcanoes the planet
has about 1,600 major ones but none of
them is known to erupt the ocean on
Jupiter is larger than any other in the
solar system but unlike Earth's oceans
it's made not of water but of metallic
hydrogen the oceans depth is a
mind-blowing 25 thousand miles
that's almost the same as the distance
around Earth with an average diameter of
2160 miles the moon is the fifth largest
satellite in the solar system after
Jupiter's satellites Ganymede Callisto
and IO and Saturn's Titan there's a
supermassive black hole 250 million
light-years away from us it humps the
deepest sound ever detected from any
object in the universe it's 57 octaves
lower than the middle C on your piano
that's 1 quadrillion which is one with
15 zeroes times deeper than what we can
hear the Milky Way galaxy and the
Andromeda galaxy are going to meet in
three point seven five billion years
they're moving towards each other at a
breakneck speed when the two galaxies
collide they'll form a huge elliptical
galaxy I won't be around them mercury is
a few billion years old in 2016
scientists discover some abnormalities
on the planet's surface showing that
it's getting smaller
after more research they found out that
mercury hadn't finished cooling down yet
astronauts in space can lose about 1% of
their muscle mass each month to prevent
this they have to stick to an exercise
regimen that lasts two hours every
single day there are tens of thousands
of black holes at the center of our home
Milky Way galaxy hundreds of them are
paired with a star and nearly 10,000
isolated ones black holes are impossible
to spot because light can't escape from
them
astronomers can only track them down
with the help of x-rays or by estimating
their gravitational pull moon rocks have
a super slow erosion rate 0.04 inches
every 1 million years that's why the
Apollo astronauts footprints left on the
moon are likely to stay there for 10 to
100 million years a neutron star gets
born after a supernova collapses after
birth it rotates extremely fast about 60
times per second but this rate can
sometimes grow up to 600 times per
second neutron stars are also incredibly
dense
a piece of the star no bigger than a
matchbox will weigh 3 billion tons but
the larger a neutron star is the less
dense it becomes hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]